Early computer systems. allowed only one program. to be executed at a time. 
Where do allowed only one program Early computer systems to be executed at a time ?
Why is allowed only one program to be executed at a time Early computer systems ?
What Early computer systems allowed only one program to be executed at a time ?
Which one Early computer systems allowed only one program to be executed at a time ?
What was Early computer systems to be executed at a time allowed only one program ?

----------------------------------
In contrt currentday computer systems. allow multiple programs to be loaded into memory. and executed concurrently. 
How long allow multiple programs to be loaded into memory In contrt currentday computer systems and executed concurrently ?
why did  allow multiple programs to be loaded into memory and executed concurrently In contrt currentday computer systems ?
Why do allow multiple programs to be loaded into memory and executed concurrently In contrt currentday computer systems ?
is it allow multiple programs to be loaded into memory and executed concurrently In contrt currentday computer systems ?
How long In contrt currentday computer systems and executed concurrently allow multiple programs to be loaded into memory ?

----------------------------------
A process is the unit of work. in a modern timesharing system.
Which is A process is the unit of work in a modern timesharing system ?
What A process is the unit of work in a modern timesharing system ?
what is A process is the unit of work in a modern timesharing system ?
When will  A process is the unit of work in a modern timesharing system ?
What time A process is the unit of work in a modern timesharing system ?

----------------------------------
The more complex the operating system. is the more it is expected. to do on behalf of its users.
What The more complex the operating system is the more it is expected to do on behalf of its users ?
Where do The more complex the operating system is the more it is expected to do on behalf of its users ?
Where do The more complex the operating system is the more it is expected to do on behalf of its users ?
is it to do on behalf of its users The more complex the operating system is the more it is expected ?
What will to do on behalf of its users The more complex the operating system is the more it is expected ?

----------------------------------
By switching the CPU between processes. the operating system. can make the computer more productive.
When did can make the computer more productive By switching the CPU between processes the operating system ?
What would By switching the CPU between processes can make the computer more productive the operating system ?
What can make the computer more productive the operating system By switching the CPU between processes ?
why did  the operating system can make the computer more productive By switching the CPU between processes ?
What can make the computer more productive the operating system By switching the CPU between processes ?

----------------------------------
A batch system executes jobs. where a timeshared system h USCI programs or tks.
How often A batch system executes jobs where a timeshared system h USCI programs or tks ?
How far A batch system executes jobs where a timeshared system h USCI programs or tks ?
When did A batch system executes jobs where a timeshared system h USCI programs or tks ?
When will  where a timeshared system h USCI programs or tks A batch system executes jobs ?
Why do where a timeshared system h USCI programs or tks A batch system executes jobs ?

----------------------------------
Once a victim page is found. the page is replaced and the new page is inserted. in the circular queue in that position. 
How much in the circular queue in that position Once a victim page is found the page is replaced and the new page is inserted ?
Which one Once a victim page is found the page is replaced and the new page is inserted in the circular queue in that position ?
Which one in the circular queue in that position the page is replaced and the new page is inserted Once a victim page is found ?
Which one the page is replaced and the new page is inserted Once a victim page is found in the circular queue in that position ?
What time in the circular queue in that position the page is replaced and the new page is inserted Once a victim page is found ?

----------------------------------
A process is a program in execution.
Why is A process is a program in execution ?
What will A process is a program in execution ?
Why do A process is a program in execution ?
What time A process is a program in execution ?
How much A process is a program in execution ?

----------------------------------
A process is more than the program code. which is sometimes known  the text section.
What which is sometimes known  the text section A process is more than the program code ?
What was which is sometimes known  the text section A process is more than the program code ?
Where do A process is more than the program code which is sometimes known  the text section ?
Why is which is sometimes known  the text section A process is more than the program code ?
What A process is more than the program code which is sometimes known  the text section ?

----------------------------------
A program becomes a process. when an executable file is loaded into memory.
Where do A program becomes a process when an executable file is loaded into memory ?
Where do when an executable file is loaded into memory A program becomes a process ?
What would A program becomes a process when an executable file is loaded into memory ?
When will  when an executable file is loaded into memory A program becomes a process ?
Which one when an executable file is loaded into memory A program becomes a process ?

----------------------------------
As a process executes. it changes state.
What would it changes state As a process executes ?
How far it changes state As a process executes ?
Why do it changes state As a process executes ?
why did  it changes state As a process executes ?
What was it changes state As a process executes ?

----------------------------------
The state of a process .is defined in part by the current activity of that process.
why did  defined in part by the current activity of that process The state of a process is ?
Why do defined in part by the current activity of that process The state of a process is ?
What kind The state of a process is defined in part by the current activity of that process ?
What kind defined in part by the current activity of that process The state of a process is ?
Where do The state of a process is defined in part by the current activity of that process ?

----------------------------------
Each process is represented in the operating system .by a process control block .PCBalso called a tk control block. 
When will  Each process is represented in the operating system by a process control block PCBalso called a tk control block ?
When did a process control block PCBalso called a tk control block Each process is represented in the operating system by ?
when is a process control block PCBalso called a tk control block Each process is represented in the operating system by ?
What have a process control block PCBalso called a tk control block Each process is represented in the operating system by ?
why did  a process control block PCBalso called a tk control block Each process is represented in the operating system by ?

----------------------------------
Program counter is a counter .that indicates the address of the next instruction to be executed. for this process. 
where is indicates the address of the next instruction to be executed for this process Program counter is a counter that ?
why did  for this process Program counter is a counter that indicates the address of the next instruction to be executed ?
What have Program counter is a counter that indicates the address of the next instruction to be executed for this process ?
How many Program counter is a counter that for this process indicates the address of the next instruction to be executed ?
How many Program counter is a counter that indicates the address of the next instruction to be executed for this process ?

----------------------------------
CPU registers are the registers .that vary in number and type. depending on the computer architecture. 
Why is CPU registers are the registers that vary in number and type depending on the computer architecture ?
What kind depending on the computer architecture CPU registers are the registers that vary in number and type ?
How often CPU registers are the registers that depending on the computer architecture vary in number and type ?
Why is vary in number and type depending on the computer architecture CPU registers are the registers that ?
What kind CPU registers are the registers that depending on the computer architecture vary in number and type ?

----------------------------------
CPU Registers include accumulators index registers stack pointers and generalpurpose registers. plus any conditioncode information.
How many plus any conditioncode information CPU Registers include accumulators index registers stack pointers and generalpurpose registers ?
why did  plus any conditioncode information CPU Registers include accumulators index registers stack pointers and generalpurpose registers ?
When did CPU Registers include accumulators index registers stack pointers and generalpurpose registers plus any conditioncode information ?
What kind plus any conditioncode information CPU Registers include accumulators index registers stack pointers and generalpurpose registers ?
What have plus any conditioncode information CPU Registers include accumulators index registers stack pointers and generalpurpose registers ?

----------------------------------
When page replacement is called.for we use the same scheme.  in the clock algorithm.
Which is When page replacement is calledfor we use the same scheme in the clock algorithm ?
What will When page replacement is calledfor in the clock algorithm we use the same scheme ?
why did  When page replacement is calledfor in the clock algorithm we use the same scheme ?
How far we use the same scheme When page replacement is calledfor in the clock algorithm ?
Which one we use the same scheme in the clock algorithm When page replacement is calledfor ?

----------------------------------
The page number is used  an index. into a page table.
When will  into a page table The page number is used  an index ?
What was into a page table The page number is used  an index ?
How many The page number is used  an index into a page table ?
Why is The page number is used  an index into a page table ?
why did  The page number is used  an index into a page table ?

----------------------------------
The objective of multiprogramming. is to have some process running at all times. to maximize CPU utilization.
where is The objective of multiprogramming is to have some process running at all times to maximize CPU utilization ?
How often to maximize CPU utilization The objective of multiprogramming is to have some process running at all times ?
What have The objective of multiprogramming is to have some process running at all times to maximize CPU utilization ?
Which one The objective of multiprogramming is to have some process running at all times to maximize CPU utilization ?
is it to maximize CPU utilization The objective of multiprogramming is to have some process running at all times ?

----------------------------------
A pointer to the page table. is stored with the other register. values like the instruction counter in the process control block.
Which one values like the instruction counter in the process control block A pointer to the page table is stored with the other register ?
How much values like the instruction counter in the process control block is stored with the other register A pointer to the page table ?
What kind is stored with the other register values like the instruction counter in the process control block A pointer to the page table ?
Where do is stored with the other register values like the instruction counter in the process control block A pointer to the page table ?
What have A pointer to the page table is stored with the other register values like the instruction counter in the process control block ?

----------------------------------
If there are more processes. the rest will have to wait until .the CPU is free and can be rescheduled. 
Where do the rest will have to wait until the CPU is free and can be rescheduled If there are more processes ?
Why do If there are more processes CPU is free and can be rescheduled the rest will have to wait until the ?
What was CPU is free and can be rescheduled If there are more processes the rest will have to wait until the ?
Where do the rest will have to wait until the If there are more processes CPU is free and can be rescheduled ?
How long the rest will have to wait until the CPU is free and can be rescheduled If there are more processes ?

----------------------------------
As processes enter the system. they are put into a job queue. which consists of all processes in the system.
why did  As processes enter the system which consists of all processes in the system they are put into a job queue ?
why did  they are put into a job queue which consists of all processes in the system As processes enter the system ?
why did  which consists of all processes in the system As processes enter the system they are put into a job queue ?
Where do As processes enter the system they are put into a job queue which consists of all processes in the system ?
When did As processes enter the system they are put into a job queue which consists of all processes in the system ?

----------------------------------
The processes that are residing in main memory. and are ready and waiting to execute. are kept on a list called the ready queue.
What kind and are ready and waiting to execute The processes that are residing in main memory are kept on a list called the ready queue ?
Why is and are ready and waiting to execute The processes that are residing in main memory are kept on a list called the ready queue ?
What have and are ready and waiting to execute The processes that are residing in main memory are kept on a list called the ready queue ?
Which one are kept on a list called the ready queue and are ready and waiting to execute The processes that are residing in main memory ?
where is The processes that are residing in main memory and are ready and waiting to execute are kept on a list called the ready queue ?

----------------------------------
A readyqueue header contains pointers. to the first and final PCBs in the list. 
Where do to the first and final PCBs in the list A readyqueue header contains pointers ?
What was A readyqueue header contains pointers to the first and final PCBs in the list ?
What was to the first and final PCBs in the list A readyqueue header contains pointers ?
when is to the first and final PCBs in the list A readyqueue header contains pointers ?
Why do A readyqueue header contains pointers to the first and final PCBs in the list ?

----------------------------------
Each PCB includes a pointer field .that points to the next PCB in the ready queue.
why did  Each PCB includes a pointer field that points to the next PCB in the ready queue ?
where is points to the next PCB in the ready queue Each PCB includes a pointer field that ?
why did  points to the next PCB in the ready queue Each PCB includes a pointer field that ?
How many Each PCB includes a pointer field that points to the next PCB in the ready queue ?
what is points to the next PCB in the ready queue Each PCB includes a pointer field that ?

----------------------------------
We replace the first page encountered .in the lowest nonempty cls. 
is it We replace the first page encountered in the lowest nonempty cls ?
What would We replace the first page encountered in the lowest nonempty cls ?
is it We replace the first page encountered in the lowest nonempty cls ?
Where do We replace the first page encountered in the lowest nonempty cls ?
when is We replace the first page encountered in the lowest nonempty cls ?

----------------------------------
The longterm scheduler or job scheduler. selects processes from this pool .and loads them into memory for execution.
When will  selects processes from this pool and The longterm scheduler or job scheduler loads them into memory for execution ?
What would loads them into memory for execution The longterm scheduler or job scheduler selects processes from this pool and ?
How far selects processes from this pool and loads them into memory for execution The longterm scheduler or job scheduler ?
What time loads them into memory for execution The longterm scheduler or job scheduler selects processes from this pool and ?
What was loads them into memory for execution selects processes from this pool and The longterm scheduler or job scheduler ?

----------------------------------
The difference between the users view of memory .and the actual physical memory .is reconciled by the addresstranslation hardware.
Which is reconciled by the addresstranslation hardware The difference between the users view of memory and the actual physical memory is ?
What was reconciled by the addresstranslation hardware The difference between the users view of memory and the actual physical memory is ?
How many The difference between the users view of memory and the actual physical memory is reconciled by the addresstranslation hardware ?
What will reconciled by the addresstranslation hardware The difference between the users view of memory and the actual physical memory is ?
When will  The difference between the users view of memory and the actual physical memory is reconciled by the addresstranslation hardware ?

----------------------------------
The primary distinction between longterm and shortterm schedulers .lies in frequency of execution. 
How much The primary distinction between longterm and shortterm schedulers lies in frequency of execution ?
When did The primary distinction between longterm and shortterm schedulers lies in frequency of execution ?
where is The primary distinction between longterm and shortterm schedulers lies in frequency of execution ?
When will  The primary distinction between longterm and shortterm schedulers lies in frequency of execution ?
when is The primary distinction between longterm and shortterm schedulers lies in frequency of execution ?

----------------------------------
The freeframe buffer provides protection .against the relatively poor. but simple FIFO replacement algorithm. 
Which is The freeframe buffer provides protection against the relatively poor but simple FIFO replacement algorithm ?
How far but simple FIFO replacement algorithm The freeframe buffer provides protection against the relatively poor ?
what is but simple FIFO replacement algorithm The freeframe buffer provides protection against the relatively poor ?
What will but simple FIFO replacement algorithm The freeframe buffer provides protection against the relatively poor ?
How often but simple FIFO replacement algorithm The freeframe buffer provides protection against the relatively poor ?

----------------------------------
The longterm scheduler executes much less frequently; minutes may separate the creation of one new process and the next.
How much The longterm scheduler executes much less frequently; minutes may separate the creation of one new process and the next ?
when is The longterm scheduler executes much less frequently; minutes may separate the creation of one new process and the next ?
Why is The longterm scheduler executes much less frequently; minutes may separate the creation of one new process and the next ?
What time The longterm scheduler executes much less frequently; minutes may separate the creation of one new process and the next ?
when is The longterm scheduler executes much less frequently; minutes may separate the creation of one new process and the next ?

----------------------------------
The longterm scheduler controls. the degree of multiprogramming the number of processes in memory. 
why did  The longterm scheduler controls the degree of multiprogramming the number of processes in memory ?
What would the degree of multiprogramming the number of processes in memory The longterm scheduler controls ?
where is the degree of multiprogramming the number of processes in memory The longterm scheduler controls ?
What kind The longterm scheduler controls the degree of multiprogramming the number of processes in memory ?
When will  the degree of multiprogramming the number of processes in memory The longterm scheduler controls ?

----------------------------------
One reon for allocating. at let a minimum number of frames involves performance.
When did at let a minimum number of frames involves performance One reon for allocating ?
When did One reon for allocating at let a minimum number of frames involves performance ?
when is at let a minimum number of frames involves performance One reon for allocating ?
is it at let a minimum number of frames involves performance One reon for allocating ?
why did  at let a minimum number of frames involves performance One reon for allocating ?

----------------------------------
With a local replacement strategy. the number of frames allocated to a process does not change. 
when is With a local replacement strategy the number of frames allocated to a process does not change ?
How long the number of frames allocated to a process does not change With a local replacement strategy ?
Why is the number of frames allocated to a process does not change With a local replacement strategy ?
what is With a local replacement strategy the number of frames allocated to a process does not change ?
How long the number of frames allocated to a process does not change With a local replacement strategy ?

----------------------------------
An I/Obound process is one that spends more of its time. doing I/O than it spends doing computations. 
Where do An I/Obound process is one that spends more of its time doing I/O than it spends doing computations ?
what is An I/Obound process is one that spends more of its time doing I/O than it spends doing computations ?
How far An I/Obound process is one that spends more of its time doing I/O than it spends doing computations ?
What kind doing I/O than it spends doing computations An I/Obound process is one that spends more of its time ?
What have An I/Obound process is one that spends more of its time doing I/O than it spends doing computations ?

----------------------------------
A CPUbound process in contrt generates I/O requests infrequently. using more of its time doing computations.
What using more of its time doing computations A CPUbound process in contrt generates I/O requests infrequently ?
when is using more of its time doing computations A CPUbound process in contrt generates I/O requests infrequently ?
What will A CPUbound process in contrt generates I/O requests infrequently using more of its time doing computations ?
When did A CPUbound process in contrt generates I/O requests infrequently using more of its time doing computations ?
Where do using more of its time doing computations A CPUbound process in contrt generates I/O requests infrequently ?

----------------------------------
The process is swapped out. and is later swapped in. by the mediumterm scheduler.
How much and is later swapped in by the mediumterm scheduler The process is swapped out ?
What have by the mediumterm scheduler and is later swapped in The process is swapped out ?
What will and is later swapped in The process is swapped out by the mediumterm scheduler ?
What time by the mediumterm scheduler The process is swapped out and is later swapped in ?
why did  and is later swapped in The process is swapped out by the mediumterm scheduler ?

----------------------------------
Interrupts cause the operating system .to change a CPU from its current tk. and to run a kernel routine. 
What was change a CPU from its current tk Interrupts cause the operating system to and to run a kernel routine ?
How far Interrupts cause the operating system to change a CPU from its current tk and to run a kernel routine ?
what is Interrupts cause the operating system to and to run a kernel routine change a CPU from its current tk ?
What will Interrupts cause the operating system to change a CPU from its current tk and to run a kernel routine ?
Why do and to run a kernel routine change a CPU from its current tk Interrupts cause the operating system to ?

----------------------------------
A process is thrhing .if it is spending more time paging than executing.
why did  A process is thrhing if it is spending more time paging than executing ?
How long A process is thrhing if it is spending more time paging than executing ?
How long A process is thrhing if it is spending more time paging than executing ?
Why is A process is thrhing if it is spending more time paging than executing ?
What will A process is thrhing if it is spending more time paging than executing ?

----------------------------------
If CPU utilization is too low we incree the degree of multiprogramming .by introducing a new process to the system.
When did If CPU utilization is too low we incree the degree of multiprogramming by introducing a new process to the system ?
Why do introducing a new process to the system If CPU utilization is too low we incree the degree of multiprogramming by ?
How much If CPU utilization is too low we incree the degree of multiprogramming by introducing a new process to the system ?
What kind If CPU utilization is too low we incree the degree of multiprogramming by introducing a new process to the system ?
What was introducing a new process to the system If CPU utilization is too low we incree the degree of multiprogramming by ?

----------------------------------
Memory is central to the operation .of a modern computer system.
when is Memory is central to the operation of a modern computer system ?
Which is Memory is central to the operation of a modern computer system ?
what is Memory is central to the operation of a modern computer system ?
what is Memory is central to the operation of a modern computer system ?
what is Memory is central to the operation of a modern computer system ?

----------------------------------
For instance. some processors such  the Sun UltraSPARC provide multiple sets of registers. 
What kind some processors such  the Sun UltraSPARC provide multiple sets of registers For instance ?
Why is For instance some processors such  the Sun UltraSPARC provide multiple sets of registers ?
What time For instance some processors such  the Sun UltraSPARC provide multiple sets of registers ?
where is some processors such  the Sun UltraSPARC provide multiple sets of registers For instance ?
Which one For instance some processors such  the Sun UltraSPARC provide multiple sets of registers ?

----------------------------------
A process may create several new processes. via a createprocess system calt. during the course of execution.
What have A process may create several new processes via a createprocess system calt during the course of execution ?
What time A process may create several new processes during the course of execution via a createprocess system calt ?
Which is A process may create several new processes via a createprocess system calt during the course of execution ?
Why is during the course of execution A process may create several new processes via a createprocess system calt ?
what is during the course of execution via a createprocess system calt A process may create several new processes ?

----------------------------------
The creating process. is called a parent process. and the new processes are called the children of that process.
when is The creating process is called a parent process and the new processes are called the children of that process ?
What will The creating process is called a parent process and the new processes are called the children of that process ?
where is and the new processes are called the children of that process The creating process is called a parent process ?
is it The creating process is called a parent process and the new processes are called the children of that process ?
What and the new processes are called the children of that process The creating process is called a parent process ?

----------------------------------
Each of these .new processes may in turn create other processes. forming a tree of processes.
What kind forming a tree of processes Each of these new processes may in turn create other processes ?
How often forming a tree of processes Each of these new processes may in turn create other processes ?
What will Each of these new forming a tree of processes processes may in turn create other processes ?
How many Each of these new processes may in turn create other processes forming a tree of processes ?
Which is forming a tree of processes processes may in turn create other processes Each of these new ?

----------------------------------
In Solaris. the process at the top of the tree is the scheduled process. with pid of 0.
How far In Solaris the process at the top of the tree is the scheduled process with pid of 0 ?
Which one In Solaris the process at the top of the tree is the scheduled process with pid of 0 ?
where is In Solaris the process at the top of the tree is the scheduled process with pid of 0 ?
is it with pid of 0 In Solaris the process at the top of the tree is the scheduled process ?
When will  In Solaris the process at the top of the tree is the scheduled process with pid of 0 ?

----------------------------------
The scheduled process creates several children processes.including pageout and flush. 
What have The scheduled process creates several children processesincluding pageout and flush ?
What kind pageout and flush The scheduled process creates several children processesincluding ?
What would The scheduled process creates several children processesincluding pageout and flush ?
Why do pageout and flush The scheduled process creates several children processesincluding ?
How long pageout and flush The scheduled process creates several children processesincluding ?

----------------------------------
inet is responsible for networking services .such  telnet and ftpdt .login is the process representing a user login screen.
How long telnet and ftpdt login is the process representing a user login screen inet is responsible for networking services such ?
why did  inet is responsible for networking services such telnet and ftpdt login is the process representing a user login screen ?
What have telnet and ftpdt login is the process representing a user login screen inet is responsible for networking services such ?
what is inet is responsible for networking services such telnet and ftpdt login is the process representing a user login screen ?
when is inet is responsible for networking services such telnet and ftpdt login is the process representing a user login screen ?

----------------------------------
When a user logs in. dtlogin creates an Xwindows session Xsession. which in turns creates the sdt_shel process. 
Why do which in turns creates the sdt_shel process dtlogin creates an Xwindows session Xsession When a user logs in ?
Why is which in turns creates the sdt_shel process dtlogin creates an Xwindows session Xsession When a user logs in ?
What was dtlogin creates an Xwindows session Xsession When a user logs in which in turns creates the sdt_shel process ?
why did  When a user logs in which in turns creates the sdt_shel process dtlogin creates an Xwindows session Xsession ?
How many which in turns creates the sdt_shel process dtlogin creates an Xwindows session Xsession When a user logs in ?

----------------------------------
Memory consists.of a large array of words or bytes. each with its own address.  
Which is each with its own address a large array of words or bytes Memory consistsof ?
why did  a large array of words or bytes Memory consistsof each with its own address ?
when is each with its own address a large array of words or bytes Memory consistsof ?
why did  Memory consistsof a large array of words or bytes each with its own address ?
when is each with its own address Memory consistsof a large array of words or bytes ?

----------------------------------
The child process. is a duplicate of the parent process. it h the same program and data  the parent.
where is it h the same program and data  the parent The child process is a duplicate of the parent process ?
Which one The child process is a duplicate of the parent process it h the same program and data  the parent ?
where is The child process is a duplicate of the parent process it h the same program and data  the parent ?
How far it h the same program and data  the parent The child process is a duplicate of the parent process ?
When will  The child process is a duplicate of the parent process it h the same program and data  the parent ?

----------------------------------
The child process. h a new program. loaded into it. 
what is loaded into it The child process h a new program ?
What will The child process loaded into it h a new program ?
Which one The child process h a new program loaded into it ?
when is loaded into it h a new program The child process ?
How much h a new program loaded into it The child process ?

----------------------------------
The limit register .specifies the size of the range. 
Why is The limit register specifies the size of the range ?
How often The limit register specifies the size of the range ?
is it The limit register specifies the size of the range ?
is it The limit register specifies the size of the range ?
What was The limit register specifies the size of the range ?

----------------------------------
A new process is created. by the fork system call. 
Which is A new process is created by the fork system call ?
when is A new process is created by the fork system call ?
Why do A new process is created by the fork system call ?
How far by the fork system call A new process is created ?
What by the fork system call A new process is created ?

----------------------------------
The new process consists. of a copy of the address space of the original process.
Where do The new process consists of a copy of the address space of the original process ?
How many The new process consists of a copy of the address space of the original process ?
What would The new process consists of a copy of the address space of the original process ?
What would The new process consists of a copy of the address space of the original process ?
is it The new process consists of a copy of the address space of the original process ?

----------------------------------
The be register holds. the smallest legal physical memory address. 
is it the smallest legal physical memory address The be register holds ?
what is the smallest legal physical memory address The be register holds ?
When will  The be register holds the smallest legal physical memory address ?
Which one the smallest legal physical memory address The be register holds ?
How far The be register holds the smallest legal physical memory address ?

----------------------------------
Main memory and the registers built into the processor itself .are the only storage that the CPU can access directly.  
why did  Main memory and the registers built into the processor itself are the only storage that the CPU can access directly ?
What would Main memory and the registers built into the processor itself are the only storage that the CPU can access directly ?
Where do Main memory and the registers built into the processor itself are the only storage that the CPU can access directly ?
why did  Main memory and the registers built into the processor itself are the only storage that the CPU can access directly ?
What would Main memory and the registers built into the processor itself are the only storage that the CPU can access directly ?

----------------------------------
Registers that are built into the CPU. are generally accessible within one cycle of the CPU clock. 
What kind are generally accessible within one cycle of the CPU clock Registers that are built into the CPU ?
How long Registers that are built into the CPU are generally accessible within one cycle of the CPU clock ?
When did Registers that are built into the CPU are generally accessible within one cycle of the CPU clock ?
What will Registers that are built into the CPU are generally accessible within one cycle of the CPU clock ?
when is Registers that are built into the CPU are generally accessible within one cycle of the CPU clock ?

----------------------------------
The value of pid for the child process is zero.; that for the parent is an integer value greater than zero.
is it The value of pid for the child process is zero; that for the parent is an integer value greater than zero ?
Why is The value of pid for the child process is zero; that for the parent is an integer value greater than zero ?
How long The value of pid for the child process is zero; that for the parent is an integer value greater than zero ?
What have The value of pid for the child process is zero; that for the parent is an integer value greater than zero ?
Why is The value of pid for the child process is zero; that for the parent is an integer value greater than zero ?

----------------------------------
The memory unit .sees only a stream of. memory addresses.
Where do only a stream of memory addresses The memory unit sees ?
How often only a stream of The memory unit sees memory addresses ?
What kind only a stream of memory addresses The memory unit sees ?
How long memory addresses only a stream of The memory unit sees ?
is it only a stream of The memory unit sees memory addresses ?

----------------------------------
