In contrt currentday computer systems allow multiple programs  be load in memory and execut concurrently 
1) In contrt load programs currentday in memory execut systems be allow and computer concurrently multiple  ?
2) be currentday contrt and concurrently execut in load memory multiple systems programs computer allow In  ?
3) multiple be In currentday computer systems programs memory execut allow load in and contrt concurrently  ?
4) in allow programs concurrently In execut multiple computer contrt memory currentday be systems load and  ?
5) in execut contrt currentday In and memory allow load programs systems concurrently multiple computer be  ?

-----------------------------
A process is the unit  work in a modern timeshar system
1) system timeshar a A work process unit modern in the is  ?
2) system a modern is A unit in timeshar process the work  ?
3) system modern A timeshar unit in the process work a is  ?
4) A modern unit in the timeshar process is system work a  ?
5) work modern is timeshar the A in unit a system process  ?

-----------------------------
The more complex the operat system is the more it is expect  do on behalf  its users
1) users is behalf operat do complex expect more system its The is the it the on more  ?
2) is operat do it the more users expect on its behalf more The complex system the is  ?
3) The more system operat behalf complex its the more the on users is is it expect do  ?
4) expect more do is system users behalf complex its The more is on the the operat it  ?
5) users operat The is complex is do expect on the it its more behalf system more the  ?

-----------------------------
A process is the unit  work in a modern timeshar system
1) timeshar a is modern system process work A in the unit  ?
2) is A in work modern timeshar a unit system the process  ?
3) process the modern timeshar unit is work A system a in  ?
4) process timeshar a the in modern system A unit is work  ?
5) unit system process work timeshar the modern is in a A  ?

-----------------------------
A process is the unit  work in a modern timeshar system
1) system work the A unit a in process is timeshar modern  ?
2) in modern timeshar unit system work process A is the a  ?
3) work modern process system timeshar a in A is unit the  ?
4) is modern work process system the in a unit A timeshar  ?
5) is in system A a process timeshar modern the work unit  ?

-----------------------------
